All right.
Time has come to install Jenkins.
In this lecture, we're going to learn how you can install Jenkins on a W s specifically on Amazon EC2,
and that's how almost all real world projects will run.
Jenkins All right, let's get started.
For all the demos throughout this course, I am actually going to use Jenkins running on a W.
S a couple of important things.
All the demos will be under free tier.
You should install Jenkins on t two.
Micro is a two instance type and T two dot micro is covered under free tier and you should not be charged
any dollar amount.
One of the real world demo that involves exe are elastic Kubernetes service where we deploy our application
to a Kubernetes cluster will incur a charge.
But that's not because of that.
Jenkins EC is has a minimal cost of running and I'll call that out.
So if you want to avoid any charge, you should just watch those X videos and not do it again.
The charge will not be from running Jenkins.
It will be for running Kubernetes on a w.
S.
And the next thing pretty obvious is you do require an account to install Jenkins and I guess you can
open one for free today at Western Amazon.com.
All right.
So I'm going to use the official Jenkins on installation instructions in the documentation.
It talks about creating a key pair and then later on it is going to use that key pair with a party to
SFH into the instance.
We are going to use the modern way of searching into ESI two.
We don't need any keeper, we will use a SIM, so I'm going to skip this step entirely.
I'm also going to skip this, create a security group part and I'm going to come directly to the launch
and Amazon, ESI, to instance this one, I'm just going to follow whatever it said.
So I'm in my console to create a new instance Click Launch Instances.
I'm going to give the name Jenkins on ESI two and by default Amazon Linux 2 a.m..
I will be selected and this is free tier eligible, so I'm going to keep that selected, keep everything
as is instance type DT to micro which will again be free tier eligible.
If I scroll down by default, it will allow SSL traffic from anywhere.
That's fine for this demo under configure storage instead of eight.
I'm just going to give 16 gigabyte and free tier customers can get up to 30 gigabyte.
So we should also be under free tier.
All right, click launch instance.
Successfully initiated launch of instance, it's going to give you an ID, so click that link.
It is going to take us to the AC two console and the instant state is pending.
It's going to go through all the startup phases and it will come to running.
So I'm going to pause the video and come back when our ESI two is up and running.
And I have opened up the installation instruction along with our console side by side.
So the instruction instruction is on the right.
So we just launched the Amazon DC two instance, so I'm going to scroll down.
So we did all that.
So now we are going to switch into the instance and install Jenkins.
We are not going to use putty.
Putty is the old approach and quite painful.
What we're going to do is select the AC two that we just provisioned and click this connect button in
that console.
It is going to take you to AC two instance, connect with the default username AC to dash user click
connect.
All right.
So we are zoomed in to our instance.
On the right, I'm going to scroll down.
So first we need to run sudo yum update.
So I want to copy that and paste it over here and then we're going to run this w git command to get
the jenkins package.
Okay then.
Copy this command and run this.
Then run sudo upgrade.
So basically just copy paste the commands.
Pretty straightforward.
Press.
Yes.
All right.
Now let's install Java.
Java is installed.
Now let's install Jenkins.
Copy this.
Press this.
All right, Jenkins installation is complete.
Then we are going to enable the Jenkins service to start at the boot.
In case you stop the AC two instance and start it again.
All right, then start.
Jenkins as a service.
All right, Jenkins is started, and you can check the status of the Jenkins service by running this
command.
All right, so as you could see, the Jenkins service is active running.
So now Jenkins is installed and running.
So we're going to go back to our AC two console, select the AC two that we just provisioned, and then
copy this public IP for address.
So I'm going to click this icon to copy it, open up a new tab, paste the IP address.
And this part is important.
You have to put colon 8080.
So press enter and this will fail not to panic.
This is because we need to update our security group.
So go back to the U.S. to go to security.
Has the security group click this.
All right.
So in the security group, only thing that's allowed now is S-H.
So we have to add a HTTP connection as well as custom TCP port 88.
So click edit inbound rules and don't change anything that's there click add rule and here select http.
And you can select cinder block as the internet as an 0.0.0.00.
Click Add rule again and then select custom TCP and give the port as 80, 80 and the source give the
whole internet.
So in Real World Project, your administrator will set this up.
Your administrator will limit this to the IP address range of your company network.
But for this demo this is fine.
Click Save Rules.
All right.
So now the security group has SSH access, regularized HTTP access as well as custom TCP port 88 access.
So let's go back to our DC to copy the public IP address.
Open another tab.
88.
Press Enter.
There we go.
Unlock Jenkins.
So now we need to get the password from the AC to Jenkins installation.
So I'm going to resize this again.
So go under.
Configure Jenkins.
Scroll down, copy this command and then go back to EC2.
And then if you have the system session open, that's fine.
Else select the easy to click connect again.
Click Connect.
All right.
Now passed the command.
So this is the password.
Copy this whole thing.
Go back to the Jenkins.
Give the administrator password.
Click.
Continue.
Don't save this.
All right.
We get the customize Jenkins screen by default install suggested plug ins will be selected.
So keep that as is and then click on that.
All right.
So now this is going to install some of the default plug in and open up the Jenkins console.
So now you need to create your first admin user.
You can give you a name.
So I'm just going to give my name, give any password, confirm the password as a given proper email
address, because if you lose your password, you will need to use this email address to restore your
password.
All right, then click seven.
Continue on the bottom.
Right.
This is the Jenkins URL.
You don't need to keep this copy pasted the way I do it, I go back to the AC two console, select the
AC two where my Jenkins is running.
Copy this.
And again, paste the IP colon.
80, 80.
You have to give this attached because the web server that's running Jenkins is running in the 88 port.
If you skip that, it's not going to work anyway.
Go back to setup.
Click Save and Finish.
That's it.
Our Jenkins is up and running on easy to click.
Start using Jenkins.
All right, folks, join me in the next video where we go over the Jenkins console.